if you want success with google ads in
2022 you need to be aware of two very
significant changes that google ads has
made the first change relates to ad copy
and the fact that google ads is removing
the option for expanded text ads from
the 30th of june now google has been
very proactive with announcing this so
most people would be aware of that
change however the second change hasn't
been as widely publicized by google and
most people wouldn't even be aware that
the change has actually already been
live since about september and 2021 and
this change has got to do with keyword
match types and if you're not aware of
this and you're not actively making
changes to your optimization schedule it
will end up costing you lots of money my
name is aaron young and i'm your 15 000
hour google ads master and in this video
i'm going to be giving you some
step-by-step strategies on what you need
to do to make sure that you're ahead of
the game and that you're still going to
see success in google ads in 2022 let's
go hey before we get into this teaching
why don't you right now quickly like and
subscribe so you can get notified every
time i release a new video the first
change that we want to talk about is the
change that's coming on june 30 2022
where you will no longer be able to
create or edit expanded text ads the
difference between the two is just the
way that you actually set up those ads
in terms of what your customer sees or
the people who are doing the google
search they don't see any different so
the ad that they're seeing is still the
same but what happens in the expanded
text ad you've only got the option to
add three headlines two paths and then
two descriptions but in the responsive
search ad as we said it still appears
the same way to the customers who are
searching for your ads but what the
actual difference is is that rather than
you just only being allowed to nominate
three headlines and two descriptions
you're actually able to nominate up to
15 headlines and up to four descriptions
with google still displaying the top
three and the top two which they feel
will be the best for that particular
searcher having google split test your
ads that sounds amazing it sounds like
it's too good to be true but
unfortunately it is and the reason for
that is because for most small and
medium businesses is they're not
actually spending enough money for
google to be able to finish the split
testing so if you actually go into this
asset status what you can actually see
here is that responsive search ads
usually need around 5000 impressions
over 30 days
for the display rating to appear in the
performance column so what that is
actually saying is so that google can
actually completely finish its split
testing it needs 5 000 impressions in 30
days so if you're not reaching that mark
which to be honest most advertisers
aren't your ads are going to be going in
a continuous learning loop and not
actually having enough data for google
and its bots to be able to make the
correct decisions so how do we resolve
this problem and it is a real problem
let me show you in this real campaign
over a 30 day period you can actually
see here we had two responsive search
ads running and also an expanded text ad
running and if you look down at this
cost per conversion column you can
actually see that the two responsive
search ads were performing at 152 and 65
cost per conversion whereas the expanded
text ad with the least amount of ai and
least amount of google split testing was
actually outperforming the two
responsive search ads but what the
problem is is even now even though we're
not at june 30 at the time of this
recording is that google ads is
prioritizing responsive search ads so
you need to be able to use this in your
google ads campaign so the solution is
and the way that you can get around this
is that rather than just having one
responsive search ad in your ad campaign
what i'd recommend is while we can still
have expanded text ads is to have
multiple expanded text ads and also have
multiple responsive search ads so that
you can continue to do some split
testing until you find what the market
responds to the best and in this case
what we found is that we only needed to
make one really really small change to
our responsive search ad in order to
improve performance so you can see here
the best performing responsive search ad
was at 65 we made one change and that
has now actually reduced down to 29 so
under 30 dollars so that performance has
been amazing but what i want to let you
know now is what the actual change was
that we made and it's a very very small
change from our split testing is that we
were able to find that the market much
preferred if we in every single ad
included this call-out text from just 39
per month now the reason for that is for
this particular client they're one of
the only people in their market that
actually run a monthly payment scheme at
a lower cost which allows their
potential clients to have a low-cost
option of being able to use their
software so the data that we were able
to get showed overwhelmingly that ads
converted better when we actually had
that 39 a month but as we said earlier
google's bots and its automatic learning
weren't able to get that data because
this ad wasn't spending enough money to
actually get those 5 000 impressions per
month so the simple change of all you
need to do i would recommend while
you're doing your split testing at least
three responsive search ads and make one
of them with no pinned headlines and
descriptions so that google can run its
testing and then for the other two
responsive search ads what i would
recommend is that you start to pin some
of the headlines and some of the
descriptions so that you can actually
see what the market is performing to
best and what we were able to find as we
said is that as long as we had this one
headline pinned in the third position it
increased our performance significantly
now the other side note that i do want
to make on this is that you will see up
the top here is that google actually
does give you a predictive ad string and
what we're saying here is as long as
your ad strength is good or excellent
you don't need to do any further changes
because as you can see from here if i
just quickly unpin this ad google has
automatically changed our ad ranking
from excellent to good and once again if
we pin it back again into position three
it removes our ad strength back down to
good but we know from our actual locked
in data long term data from august to
november we know that even though that
this ad strength is good and this one is
excellent that's the one without any
pinned in ads we know that we're getting
a much better performance with that
pinned ad in the third position so in
recap for the introduction of responsive
search ads what you need to make sure is
that you continue to do split testing
don't just rely on google's automated
testing especially if you've got a
smaller account that runs under 5000
impressions per month the second change
i wanted to talk about and this is the
one that google hasn't actually
advertised as much they've just quietly
released this out in the back end of
last year now this is one of those ones
that doesn't sound like much but this
change is really really significant and
the reason for why it is so significant
and it can have massive impacts to your
account is because we're talking about
keyword match types the reason why this
change can be so significant to your
account is because the main advantage of
google ads is that you can be very
specific with the keywords that you want
your ads to show for so as it sits right
now there's still three different types
of match types so there's broad match
phrase match and exact match now broad
match that actually hasn't changed very
much as it was previously in this
example which google is giving which is
lawn mowing service if you had that lawn
mowing service keyword set as a broad
match it could appear for any search
term which was just related to lawn
mowing service so as it's got here is
the example it could include lawn
alteration prices where it changes and
where you need to be very aware is when
it comes down to your phrase match and
your exact match historically when you'd
have a phrase match keyword like lawn
mowing service your ads would only
appear when people had used those three
words lawn mowing service in that search
query so they could have lawn mowing
service near me service lawn mowing
mowing lawn service whichever way but it
had to have those three keywords in it
it could have extra keywords but lawn
mowing service had to appear in the
search term what it's actually changed
to is it it now has to include the
meaning of your keyword so that means
that you could actually have things like
hire a company to mow your lawn or
landscaping service to cut grass but
where this gets even further is when we
get down to this exact match now
historically with exact match if you
were targeting a keyword called lawn
mowing service and it was exact match
your ads would only appear in two
circumstances so the person not only had
to use those three keywords lawn mowing
service but they also had to be used in
that order but once again similar to
what's the change has been with phrase
mac exact match now shows on searches
that have the same meaning of your
keyword so that then opens it up to more
possibilities so lawn mowing service or
grass cutting service now in this
example that google has given you it all
looks fine it looks great that's not
going to affect our ads because lawn and
grass means the same thing but let me
give you a real life example how this
could end up costing you money so the
example we're going to use for this one
is this is a company and they sell
babies earmuffs but within their niche
their emas are only for
hearing protection so as you can see
through here they run infant ones they
run for kids but they're all only
hearing protection but you can see
through in here in the search terms
they've actually got fluffy ear muffs
which are you know more of the keep your
ears warm in winter so they've got
fluffy earmuffs and fluffy headphones
and fluffy earmuffs with the space in
there now i don't have an issue with the
the earmuffs and the headphones and the
earmuff space that is okay what my issue
is is with the fluffy now what i also
wanted to show you is that we've
actually already added in a broad match
and an exact match negative keyword for
earmuffs fluffy but this is still
showing and this is where the danger is
and this can actually cost you a lot of
money now thankfully for this account we
do these checks twice a week to make
sure that this doesn't happen and that's
why we're getting this low amount of
impressions and it's not actually
costing us any money but what the
recommendation would actually be is two
things one you want to be doing a search
term audit at least every seven days now
what a search term audit is if you're
not aware of that is what you actually
do is you go into your under your
keywords banner into search terms and
then you want to pull in a period of
three days or seven days and you want to
actually go through every
single search term that has triggered
your ads now i've filtered this out so
that we can see fluffy because this was
the main one that was out but if i
didn't have that filter there it would
show me all of those keywords so what we
want to do in this situation is we want
to select these ones and i'll do two
things you add it as a negative keyword
so we'll add all of those as a negative
keyword because as we said previously
for this brand they do not provide any
fluffy earmuffs at all so we've added
all of those as fluffy earmuffs as exact
match now the second thing that you want
to do is if we just select one of these
we add this as a negative keyword we
then want to go and add it to our
campaign and then what we actually want
to do is we want to actually go through
and just add the keyword fluffy and the
reason for that is because as we can see
before remembering adding in these broad
match keywords wasn't getting rid of it
so what we're saying to google is if the
someone searches any type of search and
it includes the word fluffy we don't
want our ads to appear so as we said
it's a very small change but it's a very
significant change and you need to make
sure that in 2022 you're doing weekly
search term audits so that you can
filter out those search terms which
google is saying have the same meaning
so as a quick recap what we learned
today so that even with google ads
bringing in its responsive search ads
you still need to do regular split
testing so that you know which headlines
and descriptions are getting the highest
click-through ratio and more importantly
the highest number of conversions and
secondly we went through how google ads
has actually changed the keyword match
types to include their meaning or their
definition of those keywords so what you
need to do is make sure you're doing
those regular search term audits at
least once every week before you go i
want to give you a free gift which is my
google ads optimization checklist now
this is a checklist that i've been
developing over 12 years and i use it
every single day because what it does it
actually gives you a strategy and it
lets you know what you need to optimize
every 72 hours every week every month
and every three months in google ads to
make sure that you've got continued
success so if you follow the link below
in the description you can get my free
gift i look forward to seeing you on our
next video